README.md, before:

## 🍄 Mushroom App API 🍄

Welcome to the repository of the Mushroom App API, a Rails application designed to power the Mushroom Mobile App by providing an API for managing mushroom cultivation operations.

### Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation & Usage](#installation--usage)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Environment Variables Configuration](#environment-variables-configuration)

### Features

- **User Authentication**: Implements secure user authentication and authorization using Devise with JWT for token-based authentication.
- **API**: Provides a RESTful API for managing organizations and mushroom cultivation operations.
- **Serialization**: Utilizes JSONAPI Serializer and Blueprinter for efficient and customizable JSON output.
- **Internationalization**: Supports multiple languages with Rails I18N.
- **QR Code Generation**: Allows for generating QR codes for created mycelium.
- **PDF Generation**: Supports generating PDF documents for QR code delivery.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Ruby 3.2.1
- Rails 7.0.4.2
- PostgreSQL

### Installation & Usage

To get the backend up and running, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository and move to the folder:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:yourusername/mushroom-backend.git
cd mushroom-backend
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
bundle install
```

3. Setup the database:

```bash
rails db:create db:migrate
```

4. Start the Rails server:

```bash
rails server
```

The API will now be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Testing

To run the tests, use the following command:

```bash
rspec
```

Ensure all tests pass to verify that your setup is correct.

### Environment Variables Configuration

For the Mushroom App API to function properly, the following environment variables must be configured in your `.env` file:

- `DEVISE_SECRET_KEY`: This key is used by Devise for encrypting passwords and other sensitive data.
- `POSTGRES_PORT`: The port on which your PostgreSQL database listens. Default is `5432`.
- `JWT_EXPIRATION_DAYS`: Defines the lifespan of a JWT token in days.
- `EXPIRATION_TIME`: Expiration time in minutes for invitation codes within the app.
- `CUSTOM_URL_SCHEME`: The custom URL scheme used for deep linking within the mobile app.
- `WKHTMLTOPDF_PATH`: The file system path to the wkhtmltopdf executable

Commit message:

Adds instructions on how to download wkhtmltopdf

README.md, after:

## 🍄 Mushroom App API 🍄

Welcome to the repository of the Mushroom App API, a Rails application designed to power the Mushroom Mobile App by providing an API for managing mushroom cultivation operations.

### Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation & Usage](#installation--usage)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Environment Variables Configuration](#environment-variables-configuration)

### Features

- **User Authentication**: Implements secure user authentication and authorization using Devise with JWT for token-based authentication.
- **API**: Provides a RESTful API for managing organizations and mushroom cultivation operations.
- **Serialization**: Utilizes JSONAPI Serializer and Blueprinter for efficient and customizable JSON output.
- **Internationalization**: Supports multiple languages with Rails I18N.
- **QR Code Generation**: Allows for generating QR codes for created mycelium.
- **PDF Generation**: Supports generating PDF documents for QR code delivery.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Ruby 3.2.1
- Rails 7.0.4.2
- PostgreSQL
- `wkhtmltopdf`: For PDF generation features in this application, `wkhtmltopdf` needs to be installed. Visit the [official wkhtmltopdf downloads page](https://wkhtmltopdf.org/downloads.html) to download the appropriate version for your operating system. Please follow the installation instructions provided on the site carefully and ensure you choose the correct package for your OS and architecture. Do not use `wkhtmltopdf` with untrusted HTML – be sure to sanitize any user-supplied HTML/JS to prevent security vulnerabilities.

### Installation & Usage

To get the backend up and running, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository and move to the folder:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:yourusername/mushroom-backend.git
cd mushroom-backend
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
bundle install
```

3. Setup the database:

```bash
rails db:create db:migrate
```

4. Start the Rails server:

```bash
rails server
```

The API will now be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Testing

To run the tests, use the following command:

```bash
rspec
```

Ensure all tests pass to verify that your setup is correct.

### Environment Variables Configuration

For the Mushroom App API to function properly, the following environment variables must be configured in your `.env` file:

- `DEVISE_SECRET_KEY`: This key is used by Devise for encrypting passwords and other sensitive data.
- `POSTGRES_PORT`: The port on which your PostgreSQL database listens. Default is `5432`.
- `JWT_EXPIRATION_DAYS`: Defines the lifespan of a JWT token in days.
- `EXPIRATION_TIME`: Expiration time in minutes for invitation codes within the app.
- `CUSTOM_URL_SCHEME`: The custom URL scheme used for deep linking within the mobile app.
- `WKHTMLTOPDF_PATH`: The file system path to the wkhtmltopdf executable
